Congratulations on the
progress you've made so far!
In this section,
you'll learn about how
networks operate using
tools and protocols.
These are the concepts
that you'll use every
day in your work as
a security analyst.
The tools and protocols you'll
learn in this section of
the program will
help you protect
your organization's
network from attacks.
Did you know that malicious
actors can take advantage of
data moving from one device
to another on a network?
Thankfully, there are tools and
protocols to ensure the network
stays protected against
this type of threat.
As an example, I once
identified an attack
based solely on
the fact they were
using the wrong protocol.
The network traffic
volumes were right, and it
was coming from a trusted IP,
but it was on the wrong protocol,
which tipped us off
enough to shut down
the attack before they
caused real damage.
First, we'll discuss some
common network protocols.
Then we'll discuss virtual
private networks, or VPNs.
And finally, we'll learn about
firewall security zones
and proxy servers.
Now that you have an
idea of where we're
headed, let's get started.